[spectre.txt] page 1 starts
Writing's On The Wall
Sam Smith
I've been here before
But always hit the floor
I've spent a lifetime running
And I always get away
But with you I'm feeling something
That makes me want to stay
I'm prepared for this
I never shoot to miss
[spectre.txt] page 1 ends

[spectre.txt] page 2 starts
But I feel like a storm is coming
If I'm gonna make it through the day
Then there's no more use in running
This is something I gotta face
If I risk it all
Could you break my fall?
How do I live? How do I breathe?
When you're not here I'm suffocating
I want to feel love, run through my blood
Tell me is this where I give it all up?
[spectre.txt] page 2 ends

[spectre.txt] page 3 starts
For you I have to risk it all
'Cause the writing's on the wall
A million shards of glass
That haunt me from my past
As the stars begin to gather
And the light begins to fade
When all hope begins to shatter
Know that I won't be afraid
If I risk it all
Could you break my fall?
[spectre.txt] page 3 ends

[spectre.txt] page 4 starts
How do I live? How do I breathe?
When you're not here I'm suffocating
I want to feel love, run through my blood
Tell me is this where I give it all up?
For you I have to risk it all
'Cause the writing's on the wall
The writing's on the wall
How do I live? How do I breathe?
When you're not here I'm suffocating
I want to feel love, run through my blood
[spectre.txt] page 4 ends

[spectre.txt] page 5 starts
Tell me is this where I give it all up?
How do I live? How do I breathe?
When you're not here I'm suffocating
I want to feel love, run through my blood
Tell me is this where I give it all up?
For you I have to risk it all
'Cause the writing's on the wall
[spectre.txt] page 5 ends

[fotr.txt] page 1 starts
Chapter 1 . A Long-expected Party 

When Mr. Bilbo Baggins of Bag End announced that he would shortly be 
celebrating his eleventy -first birthday with a party of special 
magnificence, there was much talk and excitement in Hobbiton. 

Bilbo was very rich and very peculiar, and had been the wonder of the 
Shire for sixty years, ever since his remarkable disappearance and 
unexpected return. The riches he had brought back from his travels had now 
become a local legend, and it was popularly believed, whatever the old folk 
[fotr.txt] page 1 ends

[fotr.txt] page 2 starts
might say, that the Hill at Bag End was full of tunnels stuffed with 
treasure. And if that was not enough for fame, there was also his prolonged 
vigour to marvel at. Time wore on, but it seemed to have little effect on 
Mr. Baggins. At ninety he was much the same as at fifty. At ninety-nine they 
began to call him we//-preserved, but unchanged would have been nearer the 
mark. There were some that shook their heads and thought this was too much 
of a good thing; it seemed unfair that anyone should possess (apparently) 
perpetual youth as well as (reputedly) inexhaustible wealth. 

'It will have to be paid for,' they said. 'It isn't natural, and 
[fotr.txt] page 2 ends

[fotr.txt] page 3 starts
trouble will come of it!' 

But so far trouble had not come; and as Mr. Baggins was generous with 
his money, most people were willing to forgive him his oddities and his good 
fortune. He remained on visiting terms with his relatives (except, of 
course, the Sackville-Bagginses), and he had many devoted admirers among 
the 

hobbits of poor and unimportant families. But he had no close friends, until 
some of his younger cousins began to grow up. 
[fotr.txt] page 3 ends

[fotr.txt] page 4 starts

The eldest of these, and Bilbo's favourite, was young Frodo Baggins. 
When Bilbo was ninety-nine, he adopted Frodo as his heir, and brought him to 
live at Bag End; and the hopes of the Sackville-Bagginses were finally 
dashed. Bilbo and Frodo happened to have the same birthday, September 
22nd. 

'You had better come and live here, Frodo my lad,' said Bilbo one day; 'and 
then we can celebrate our birthday-parties comfortably together.' At that 

[fotr.txt] page 4 ends

[fotr.txt] page 5 starts



time Frodo was still in his tweens, as the hobbits called the irresponsible 
twenties between childhood and coming of age at thirty-three. 

Twelve more years passed. Each year the Bagginses had given very lively 
combined birthday-parties at Bag End; but now it was understood that 
something quite exceptional was being planned for that autumn. Bilbo was 
going to be eleventy-one, 111, a rather curious number and a very 
[fotr.txt] page 5 ends

[fotr.txt] page 6 starts
respectable age for a hobbit (the Old Took himself had only reached 130); 
and Frodo was going to be thirty-three, 33) an important number: the date of 
his 'coming of age'. 

Tongues began to wag in Flobbiton and By water; and rumour of the coming 
event travelled all over the Shire. The history and character of Mr. Bilbo 
Baggins became once again the chief topic of conversation; and the older 
folk suddenly found their reminiscences in welcome demand. 

No one had a more attentive audience than old Ham Gamgee, commonly 
[fotr.txt] page 6 ends

[fotr.txt] page 7 starts
known as the Gaffer. He held forth at The Ivy Bush , a small inn on the 
Bywater road; and he spoke with some authority, for he had tended the garden 
at Bag End for forty years, and had helped old Holman in the same job before 
that. Now that he was himself growing old and stiff in the joints, the job 
was mainly carried on by his youngest son, Sam Gamgee. Both father and son 
were on very friendly terms with Bilbo and Frodo. They lived on the Hill 
itself, in Number 3 Bagshot Row just below Bag End. 

’A very nice well-spoken gentlehobbit is Mr. Bilbo, as I've always 
said,' the Gaffer declared. With perfect truth: for Bilbo was very polite to 
[fotr.txt] page 7 ends

[fotr.txt] page 8 starts
him, calling him 'Master Hamfast', and consulting him constantly upon the 
growing of vegetables - in the matter of 'roots', especially potatoes, the 
Gaffer was recognized as the leading authority by all in the neighbourhood 
(including himself). 

'But what about this Frodo that lives with him?' asked Old Noakes of 
By water. 'Baggins is his name, but he's more than half a Brandybuck, they 
say. It beats me why any Baggins of Hobbiton should go looking for a wife 
away there in Buckland, where folks are so queer.' 

[fotr.txt] page 8 ends

[fotr.txt] page 9 starts
'And no wonder they're queer,' put in Daddy Twofoot (the Gaffer's 
next-door neighbour), 'if they live on the wrong side of the Brandywine 
River, and right agin the Old Forest. That's a dark bad place, if half the 
tales be true.' 

'You're right, Dad!' said the Gaffer. 'Not that the Brandybucks of 
Buck-land live in the Old Forest; but they're a queer breed, seemingly. They 



[fotr.txt] page 9 ends

[fotr.txt] page 10 starts

fool about with boats on that big river - and that isn’t natural. Small 
wonder that trouble came of it, I say. But be that as it may, Mr. Frodo is 
as nice a young hobbit as you could wish to meet. Very much like Mr. Bilbo, 
and in more than looks. After all his father was a Baggins. A decent 
respectable hobbit was Mr. Drogo Baggins; there was never much to tell of 
him, till he was drownded.' 

'Drownded?' said several voices. They had heard this and other darker 
rumours before, of course; but hobbits have a passion for family history, 
[fotr.txt] page 10 ends

[fotr.txt] page 11 starts
and they were ready to hear it again. 'Well, so they say,' said the Gaffer. 

'You see: Mr. Drogo, he married poor Miss Primula Brandybuck. She was 
our 

Mr. Bilbo's first cousin on the mother's side (her mother being the youngest 
of the Old Took's daughters); and Mr. Drogo was his second cousin. So Mr. 
Frodo is his first and second cousin, once removed either way, as the saying 
is, if you follow me. And Mr. Drogo was staying at Brandy Flail with his 
father-in-law, old Master Gorbadoc, as he often did after his marriage (him 
[fotr.txt] page 11 ends

[fotr.txt] page 12 starts
being partial to his vittles, and old Gorbadoc keeping a mighty generous 
table); and he went out boating on the Brandywine River; and he and his wife 
were drownded, and poor Mr. Frodo only a child and all. ' 

'I've heard they went on the water after dinner in the moonlight,' said 
Old Noakes; 'and it was Drogo's weight as sunk the boat.' 

'And / heard she pushed him in, and he pulled her in after him,' said 
Sandy man, the Hobbiton miller. 

[fotr.txt] page 12 ends

[fotr.txt] page 13 starts
'You shouldn't listen to all you hear, Sandyman,' said the Gaffer, who 
did not much like the miller. 'There isn't no call to go talking of pushing 
and pulling. Boats are quite tricky enough for those that sit still without 
looking further for the cause of trouble. Anyway: there was this Mr. Frodo 
left an orphan and stranded, as you might say, among those queer 
Bucklanders, being brought up anyhow in Brandy Hall. A regular warren, by 
all accounts. Old Master Gorbadoc never had fewer than a couple of hundred 
relations in the place. Mr. Bilbo never did a kinder deed than when he 
brought the lad back to live among decent folk. 

[fotr.txt] page 13 ends

[fotr.txt] page 14 starts
'But I reckon it was a nasty shock for those Sackville-Bagginses. They 
thought they were going to get Bag End, that time when he went off and was 
thought to be dead. And then he comes back and orders them off; and he goes 
on living and living, and never looking a day older, bless him! And suddenly 
he produces an heir, and has all the papers made out proper. The 




Sackville-Bagginses won’t never see the inside of Bag End now, or it is to 
[fotr.txt] page 14 ends

[fotr.txt] page 15 starts
be hoped not.' 

'There's a tidy bit of money tucked away up there, I hear tell,' said a 
stranger, a visitor on business from Michel Delving in the Westfarthing. 

'All the top of your hill is full of tunnels packed with chests of gold and 
silver, and jools, by what I've heard. ' 

'Then you've heard more than I can speak to,' answered the Gaffer. I 
know nothing about jools. Mr. Bilbo is free with his money, and there seems 
[fotr.txt] page 15 ends

[fotr.txt] page 16 starts
no lack of it; but I know of no tunnel -making. I saw Mr. Bilbo when he came 
back, a matter of sixty years ago, when I was a lad. I'd not long come 
prentice to old Holman (him being my dad's cousin), but he had me up at Bag 
End helping him to keep folks from trampling and trapessing all over the 
garden while the sale was on. And in the middle of it all Mr. Bilbo comes up 
the Hill with a pony and some mighty big bags and a couple of chests. I 
don't doubt they were mostly full of treasure he had picked up in foreign 
parts, where there be mountains of gold, they say; but there wasn't enough 
to fill tunnels. But my lad Sam will know more about that. He's in and out 
of Bag End. Crazy about stories of the old days he is, and he listens to all 
[fotr.txt] page 16 ends

[fotr.txt] page 17 starts
Mr. Bilbo's tales. Mr. Bilbo has learned him his letters - meaning no harm, 
mark you, and I hope no harm will come of it. 

'Elves and Dragons' Isays to him. 'Cabbages and potatoes are better 
for me and you. Don 't go getting mixed up in the business of your betters, 
or you'll land in trouble too big for you, ' I says to him. And I might say 
it to others,' he added with a look at the stranger and the miller. 

But the Gaffer did not convince his audience. The legend of Bilbo's 
wealth was now too firmly fixed in the minds of the younger generation of 
[fotr.txt] page 17 ends

[fotr.txt] page 18 starts
hobbits. 

'Ah, but he has likely enough been adding to what he brought at first,' 
argued the miller, voicing common opinion. 'He's often away from home. And 
look at the outlandish folk that visit him: dwarves coming at night, and 
that old wandering conjuror, Gandalf, and all. You can say what you like, 
Gaffer, but Bag End's a queer place, and its folk are queerer.' 

'And you can say what you like, about what you know no more of than you 
do of boating, Mr. Sandyman,' retorted the Gaffer, disliking the miller even 
[fotr.txt] page 18 ends

[fotr.txt] page 19 starts
more than usual. If that's being queer, then we could do with a bit more 
queerness in these parts. There's some not far away that wouldn't offer a 
pint of beer to a friend, if they lived in a hole with golden walls. But 




they do things proper at Bag End. Our Sam says that everyone's going to be 
invited to the party, and there’s going to be presents, mark you, presents 
for all - this very month as is.' 
[fotr.txt] page 19 ends

[fotr.txt] page 20 starts

That very month was September, and as fine as you could ask. A day or 
two later a rumour (probably started by the knowledgeable Sam) was spread 
about that there were going to be fireworks - fireworks, what is more, such 
as had not been seen in the Shire for nigh on a century, not indeed since 
the Old Took died. 

Days passed and The Day drew nearer. An odd-looking waggon laden with 
odd-looking packages rolled into Hobbiton one evening and toiled up the Hill 
to Bag End. The startled hobbits peered out of lamplit doors to gape at it. 
[fotr.txt] page 20 ends

[fotr.txt] page 21 starts

It was driven by outlandish folk, singing strange songs: dwarves with long 
beards and deep hoods. A few of them remained at Bag End. At the end of the 
second week in September a cart came in through Bywater from the direction 
of the Brandywine Bridge in broad daylight. An old man was driving it all 
alone. He wore a tall pointed blue hat, a long grey cloak, and a silver 
scarf. He had a long white beard and bushy eyebrows that stuck out beyond 
the brim of his hat. Small hobbit-children ran after the cart all through 
Hobbiton and right up the hill. It had a cargo of fireworks, as they rightly 
guessed. At Bilbo's front door the old man began to unload: there were great 
[fotr.txt] page 21 ends

[fotr.txt] page 22 starts
bundles of fireworks of all sorts and shapes, each labelled with a large red 
G and the elf-rune, . 

That was Gandalf s mark, of course, and the old man was Gandalf the 
Wizard, whose fame in the Shire was due mainly to his skill with fires, 
smokes, and lights. His real business was far more difficult and dangerous, 
but the Shire-folk knew nothing about it. To them he was just one of the 
'attractions' at the Party. Hence the excitement of the hobbit-children. 'G 
for Grand!' they shouted, and the old man smiled. They knew him by sight, 
though he only appeared in Hobbiton occasionally and never stopped long; but 
[fotr.txt] page 22 ends

[fotr.txt] page 23 starts
neither they nor any but the oldest of their elders had seen one of his 
firework displays - they now belonged to the legendary past. 

When the old man, helped by Bilbo and some dwarves, had finished 
unloading. Bilbo gave a few pennies away; but not a single squib or cracker 
was forthcoming, to the disappointment of the onlookers. 

'Run away now!' said Gandalf. 'You will get plenty when the time 
comes.' Then he disappeared inside with Bilbo, and the door was shut. The 
young hobbits stared at the door in vain for a while, and then made off, 
[fotr.txt] page 23 ends

[fotr.txt] page 24 starts




feeling that the day of the party would never come. 

Inside Bag End, Bilbo and Gandalf were sitting at the open window of a 
small room looking out west on to the garden. The late afternoon was bright 
and peaceful. The flowers glowed red and golden: snap-dragons and 
sun-flowers, and nasturtiums trailing all over the turf walls and peeping in 
[fotr.txt] page 24 ends

[fotr.txt] page 25 starts
at the round windows. 

'How bright your garden looks!' said Gandalf. 

'Yes,' said Bilbo. I am very fond indeed of it, and of all the dear old 
Shire; but I think I need a holiday.' 

'You mean to go on with your plan then?' 

'I do. I made up my mind months ago, and I haven't changed it.' 
[fotr.txt] page 25 ends

[fotr.txt] page 26 starts

'Very well. It is no good saying any more. Stick to your plan - your 
whole plan, mind - and I hope it will turn out for the best, for you, and 
for all of us.' 

'I hope so. Anyway I mean to enjoy myself on Thursday, and have my 
little joke.' 

'Who will laugh, I wonder?' said Gandalf, shaking his head. 

[fotr.txt] page 26 ends

[fotr.txt] page 27 starts
'We shall see,' said Bilbo. 

The next day more carts rolled up the Hill, and still more carts. There 
might have been some grumbling about 'dealing locally', but that very week 
orders began to pour out of Bag End for every kind of provision, commodity, 
or luxury that could be obtained in Hobbiton or Bywater or anywhere in the 
neighbourhood. People became enthusiastic; and they began to tick off the 
days on the calendar; and they watched eagerly for the postman, hoping for 
invitations. 

[fotr.txt] page 27 ends

[fotr.txt] page 28 starts
Before long the invitations began pouring out, and the Hobbiton 
post-office was blocked, and the Bywater post-office was snowed under, and 
voluntary assistant postmen were called for. There was a constant stream of 
them going up the Hill, carrying hundreds of polite variations on Thank you, 

I shall certainly come. 

A notice appeared on the gate at Bag End: NO ADMITTANCE EXCEPT 
ON PARTY 

[fotr.txt] page 28 ends

[fotr.txt] page 29 starts
BUSINESS. Even those who had, or pretended to have Party Business were 
seldom allowed inside. Bilbo was busy: writing invitations, ticking off 
answers, packing up presents, and making some private preparations of his 
own. From the time of Gandalf s arrival he remained hidden from view. 

One morning the hobbits woke to find the large field, south of Bilbo's 




[fotr.txt] page 29 ends

[fotr.txt] page 30 starts
front door, covered with ropes and poles for tents and pavilions. A special 
entrance was cut into the bank leading to the road, and wide steps and a 
large white gate were built there. The three hobbit-families of Bagshot Row, 
adjoining the field, were intensely interested and generally envied. Old 
Gaffer Gamgee stopped even pretending to work in his garden. 

The tents began to go up. There was a specially large pavilion, so big 
that the tree that grew in the field was right inside it, and stood proudly 
near one end, at the head of the chief table. Lanterns were hung on all its 
branches. More promising still (to the hobbits’ mind): an enormous open-air 
[fotr.txt] page 30 ends

[fotr.txt] page 31 starts
kitchen was erected in the north corner of the field. A draught of cooks, 
from every inn and eating-house for miles around, arrived to supplement the 
dwarves and other odd folk that were quartered at Bag End. Excitement rose 
to its height. 

Then the weather clouded over. That was on Wednesday the eve of the 
Party. Anxiety was intense. Then Thursday, September the 22nd, actually 
dawned. The sun got up, the clouds vanished, flags were unfurled and the fun 
began. 

[fotr.txt] page 31 ends

[fotr.txt] page 32 starts
Bilbo Baggins called it a party, but it was really a variety of 
entertainments rolled into one. Practically everybody living near was 
invited. A very few were overlooked by accident, but as they turned up all 
the same, that did not matter. Many people from other parts of the Shire 
were also asked; and there were even a few from outside the borders. Bilbo 
met the guests (and additions) at the new white gate in person. Ele gave away 
presents to all and sundry - the latter were those who went out again by a 
back way and came in again by the gate. Hobbits give presents to other 
people on their own birthdays. Not very expensive ones, as a rule, and not 
so lavishly as on this occasion; but it was not a bad system. Actually in 
[fotr.txt] page 32 ends

[fotr.txt] page 33 starts
Hobbiton and Bywater every day in the year it was somebody’s birthday, so 
that every hobbit in those parts had a fair chance of at least one present 
at least once a week. But they never got tired of them. 


[fotr.txt] page 33 ends

